Fake PCI SR-IOV VFIO test fixture
=================================

``fake_pci_sriov.ko`` is a self-contained module for testing SR-IOV
control-plane flows without physical SR-IOV hardware.  It creates fake PCI host
bridges with physical functions and software-created virtual functions.
The VFs can be bound to VFIO and assigned to QEMU guests.

For the standalone repository build from the repository root with::

   make

or from this directory with::

   make -C /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/build M=$PWD modules

The built module is ``fake_pci_sriov.ko``.

Local helpers
-------------

The helper scripts are intentionally kept next to the out-of-tree module so
relative paths work in standalone development checkouts and DevStack jobs.

``cleanup_fake_pci_sriov.sh``
   Best-effort cleanup for fake VFs, fake PFs, driver overrides, and the
   loaded module.  DevStack and smoke tests use this to make repeated runs
   deterministic.

``test_pci_sim_loopback.py``
   Host-side loopback test.  It loads the module, enables VFs, waits for
   ``/dev/ttyPCI_SIM<N>``, and checks that bytes written to each TTY are read
   back from the same TTY.

``run_fake_pci_multi_pf_smoke.sh``
   Host-side multi-PF smoke test.  It verifies multiple fake PFs, expected
   class codes, VF creation, and cleanup.

``run_fake_pci_qemu_vfio_smoke.sh``
   Bounded QEMU/VFIO smoke test.  It verifies that a fake VF can bind to
   ``pci_sim_vfio_pci`` and that QEMU can start with the VF assigned.

``run_cirros_vfio_guest_probe.sh``
   CirrOS guest probe test.  It logs in over the serial console and runs
   guest-side PCI and TTY discovery commands.

``run_cirros_vfio_userdata_echo.sh``
   CirrOS config-drive end-to-end test.  Guest user-data probes the VF and
   verifies the emulated UART loopback path inside the guest.

``cirros_vfio_userdata_echo.sh``
   Guest-side user-data script copied into the config-drive generated by
   ``run_cirros_vfio_userdata_echo.sh``.

Common test targets are available from this directory after building the
module::

   make test-loopback
   make test-multi-pf
